4112126, 6:14 AM Intel® Data Direct I/O Technology Performance Monitoring
© IO: the integrated 1/0 inbound and outbound traffic controllers (ITC/OTC)
© I: short for IRP, the I1O to ring port or 1/0 cache tracker

M2M: the mesh to memory unit

M2P: short for M2PCIe, the mesh to PCIe unit

MBUPT: the interface between the mesh and the Intel® UPI Link Layer

MDF: bridges multiple dies with an embedded bridge system
short for PCU, the power control unit

U: short for UBOX, the system configuration controller

UPI: the Intel® UPI Link Layer unit

: short for IMC, the integrated memory controller

  

 

The remainder of the event name briefly describes what this event ID counts. There is often a period in the name which usually indicates
that several events share the same event ID but use different umask values. For example, the event name “UNC_M_CAS_COUNT.RD” tells
us this is an uncore event, counting in the integrated memory controller and is counting CAS commands that are read transactions.

Note that the events defined in the "4" Gen Intel® Xeon® Scalable Processor Uncore Performance Monitoring Programming Guide” [1] do
not contain this leading UNC and unit acronym in front of

  

2.3.4 Understanding 110 Event Parts

While on the topic of event naming conventions, it is worth calling out the set of I10 events that end with “.partn’” where nis a number
between 0 to 7, for example “UNC_IIO_DATA_REQ_OF_CPU.MEM_WRITE.PARTO”. The M2IOSF can support up to two IOSF ports, and
these “part” events allow us to monitor various PCIE bifurcation configurations across the two ports, up to a x4 PCIE lane resolution. Parts
0-3 map to the first x16 port, and parts 4-7 map to the second x16 port. For example, if the first port is connected to a 4x4 configuration
and traffic is being sent on all 4 links then events for parts 0-3 will increment accordingly. It is common for only one port to be connected.
In this case, the parts connected to the non-operational port will return a count of zero.

The following picture shows how these parts map to possible bifurcations of a x16 PCTe link.

Mesh

iT

M210SF

 

 

 

 

 

 

Figure 5: PCIE Parts Mapping

If you monitor a PCIE x16 device, you can expect event counts to show on event PARTO (or PARTS if the slot is connected to the second
port). In a 2x8 configuration, counts will show on PARTO and PART2.

https:/Avww.intel,com/contentiwww/us/en/developer/articles/technical/ddio-analysis-performance-monitoring.html 8122
