The 4th Generation Intel® Xeon® Scalable Processor and Sth Generation Intel® Xeon® Scalable Processor offers multiple methods to

designate all or a portion of inbound 1/0 writes as non-allocating, This can be achieved either through BIOS or by adjusting the relevant
‘TPH bit in the PCle transaction TLP header.

Full non-allocating writes bypass the LLC and there is no allocation into the LLC, even as a temporary measure. Partial non-allocating writes
temporarily allocate into the LLC for data merging purposes. In this case, once the data merging is complete the full cache line in the LLC is
released and written to memory.

2.2.1.5 IO LLC Ways

In CPUs that support Intel® DDIO, a model-specific register (MSR) named IO_LLC_WAYS is present. This register allows users to regulate
the size of the segment of the LLC where new inbound 1/0 write data can be allocated, By default, only a limited section of the LLC is
available for fresh allocations; this helps to safeguard valuable application data from being displaced from the LLC by I/O data, Detailed
specifications of this register are provided in platform-specific documentation.

2.2.2 Inbound Reads
2.2.2.1 Inbound Reads Overview

Inbound 1/0 read transactions also benefit from Intel® DDIO as it allows the device to read the data from system caches as opposed to
system memory, resulting in latency reduction and memory demand savings, Inbound 1/0 read requests do not intrinsically result in LLC
allocations. However, they must follow the coherence protocol of the platform, which may need to allocate data into LLC following a snoop.
‘As with inbound write requests, read requests can hit or miss LLC.

2.2.2.2 Inbound Reads LLC Hit

Inbound read requests are initiated by M2IOSF and target a specific CHA determined by the destination address's hash. The CHA looks up
the data in LLC and, if the data is present, returns the full cache line to the requestor M2IOSF. M2IOSF does not keep a copy of the cache
line, so no snoop filter update is necessary.

2.2.2.3 Inbound Read LLC Miss

If the CHA did not find the requested data in LLC, it must be found elsewhere in the system. This can be a core’s local cache, or a cache in
another socket, or system memory. CHA looks up the snoop filter to determine if the data is available in another core’s cache and reads the
memory to determine if it’s present in another socket. By default, if data is read from memory, it is not cached in LLC.

2.3 Performance Monitoring Overview
2.3.1 Introduction

The Intel Performance Monitoring feature includes a large set of registers called performance monitoring counters (PMC) that software can
program to count a specified “hardware event.” These PMCs are distributed throughout the architecture, including the blocks shown in
Figure 1: Core, CHA, M2IOSF, UPI, IMC, and more. By “hardware event,” we refer to an activity that occurs in that block that is interesting
to monitor. For example, in the core, PMCs can count the number of instructions retired, branch predictions and cache hits.

2.3.2 Intel® PerfMon GitHub

Intel® publishes PerfMon event and metric information for all supported platforms on its Performance Monitoring GitHub [2], In the SPR
folder, the event folder contains three files containing event programming information:

+ sapphirerapids_core.json: Core and Off Core Response (OCR) events

+ sapphirerapids_uncore.json: Tested uncore events

+ sapphirerapids_uncore_experimental.json: uncore events that have not been tested; “use at your own risk”.

These three files contain all the available PerfMon events for 4th Generation Intel® Xeon® Scalable Processors and event programming
information for software tools. Events for the 5th Generation Intel® Xeon® Scalable Processors are available under the EMR directory.

There is also a metric folder, containing a JSON file with useful metrics that make performance analysis easier by turning raw event counts
into human-readable units of measure like GHz, MB/S, or nanoseconds. These metrics can be used by custom PerfMon tools and are also
available in “Linux perf stat” via the -M option

2.3.3 PerfMon Event Naming Conventions

It is helpful to understand the uncore PerfMon event naming convention used for defining a countable event, so that one can determine
where in the architecture the monitoring is occurring from the event name or from which unit's perspective,

Each event definition in the JSON file has a field “EventName” which assigns a human readable string to a specific set of values that
software programs into the PerfMon control registers. The event name starts with "UNC" to indicate this is an uncore event (rather than a
core event). Following "UNC" is an acronym or letter to indicate which unit in the uncore this event belongs to. This quickly tells us if we
observe counts in the memory controller, UPI link, or CHA. Below is the key for the acronyms used:

* CHA: the LLC Coherency engine and home agent

+ M2IOSF:

https:/Awww.intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/articles/technical/ddio-analysis-performance-monitoring.html 7122
