
physical address. Note that this means there is no inherent affinity for a memory request from a core to go to its co-located CHA or LLC
slice. The CHA is a critical PerfMon observation point for I/O analysis and Intel® DDIO effectiveness, as this is where we can count I/O
requests and observe LLC hits and misses for the socket.

+ M2IOSF: The Mesh to 1/O Scalable Fabric connects to the mesh and is the interface between the CPU and I/O devices connected
through a PCI Express slot or integrated on die. The M2IOSF is an observation point where we can count I/O request types per M2IOSF
block or PCIE device. The M2IOSF contains multiple sub-blocks with performance monitoring units (PMUs). The M2IOSF serves the
same bridging function for Compute Express Link® (CXL) devices, but these blocks and flows are not shown or discussed here.

© TIO: Integrated 1/0 unit consisting of an inbound and outbound traffic controller for queueing requests; it is responsible for
following PCI Express ordering rules and converting PCI Express requests to internal commands for IRP and vice-versa. The IO
PMU provides per device resolution (up to x4 bifurcation), In this context, “inbound” refers to I/O device-initiated requests sent to
the CPU (also called upstream), while “outbound” refers to CPU-initiated requests sent to the I/O device (also called downstream).

‘© IRP: IIO to Ring Port unit, sometimes called the cache tracker, is responsible for converting IIO requests (from PCle/CXL or
integrated accelerator agents) to mesh requests and vice versa. The IRP contains a local write cache that is used for accelerating
inbound write requests. This cache should not be confused with processor L1, L2 caches, or the CHA LLC and can be thought of as
a temporary write buffer. The IRP PMU provides per M2IOSF resolution, not per device like the 110.

‘© M2PCIE: Mesh to PCI Express unit, bridges the mesh and IRP.

 

Mesh

 

ae

M2PCIE
vie)

M2PCIE

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PCIE / DMI / OSE

Figure 2: M2IOSF block diagram

+ IMC: Integrated Memory Controller that handles all access to DDR.
+ UPI: Intel Ultra Path Interconnect, a high-speed interconnect used in multi-socket server configurations to connect multiple sockets
together.

2.2 Intel® DDIO Overview (w/ high level transactions)

Intel® DDIO allows I/O devices to perform direct memory access (DMA) transactions, including inbound reads and inbound writes to the
CPU's LLC instead of DRAM. This has multiple benefits: improving transaction latencies observed by the I/O device, reducing demand on

https:/Avww.intel,com/contentiwww/us/en/developer/articles/technical/ddio-analysis-performance-monitoring.html 3122
