
 

Discrete IO device or built-in
SOC accelerator

UPI Link
V PN 0

\

4 spr >

we ,
=

4%
44

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Remote Socket

3
%
3
244
aS 3 Snoops
3 , Inbound Request
Core A % g o NA

jenie Response
Nd

 

 

 

Potential follow up
operations by CHA

 

 

 

\
y \ ' Local

Core ~e L -snoops
CHAVLLC »

~ Core
CHA/LLE

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Writebacks

 

 

DDRs i Ie

 

 

 

 

 

Figure 4: Inbound Write Transaction Diagram. Inbound Writes Consist of Ownership Phase (1-2) and Writeback Phase (3).

2.2.1.2 Inbound Write LLC Hit

LLC hit is the most desirable outcome of an inbound write as it typically results in the lowest overhead the CPU has to incur to service the
write, In the event of an LLC hit the CHA simply updates the cache line in the LLC. For full cache line transactions, the entire cache line is
overwritten with the new data; for partial cache line transactions, the cache line is merged inside the CHA.

While LLC hit is the simplest outcome of the inbound write, if copies of the data were also found in other caching agents, such as cores or a
cache in another CPU socket, a snoop operation is required to invalidate the data from these caching agents to maintain coherence,
2.2.1.3 Inbound Write LLC Miss

In case of an LLC miss, a copy of the data may be present in another cache, such as another core’s local caches or another CPU socket LLC.
While processing LLC miss, the CHA determines the location of the data by various means, such as checking the snoop filter, then proceeds
to snoop the data if needed. Once these coherency operations have been completed, if the write operation is allocating, the CHA allocates
the new data in its LLC. Allocating writes are the most common inbound I/O write scenario; see section 2.3.1.4 for non-allocating writes.

‘As with other cache allocations, if the LLC has no available cache line slots (invalid lines) to allocate the new inbound 1/O write data, the
CHA makes room by evicting older data to memory. In case the victimized cache line was dirty, the eviction will result in a memory write
and other coherence operations if necessary.

Similar to an inbound LLC hit, if the inbound write is partial, the data is merged with a previous copy of the data. In this case, the previous
copy of the data is fetched from memory or another cache.

2.2.1.4 Non-Allocating Inbound Writes

https:/Avww.intel,com/contentiwww/us/en/developer/articles/technical/ddio-analysis-performance-monitoring.html 6122
