
system memory, and improving data read latencies observed by the data consumers, such as CPU cores or accelerators. Intel® DDIO
applies to most 1/0 devices attached to the system 1/O ports as well as built-in devices such as accelerators,

In systems with multi-level memory hierarchy, accesses to data residing in higher cache layers enjoy lower latencies than accesses to
DRAM. In systems without Intel® DDIO (prior to Intel® Xeon® processor E5 family and Intel® Xeon® processor E7 v2 family), inbound
DMA writes terminate in system memory, resulting in relatively longer latency experienced by the consumers of the data, With Intel®
DDIO, the inbound writes are allocated in CPU's LLC, allowing the consumers to get the data much quicker.

In Intel architecture, inbound transactions initiated by the device pass through the integrated 1/O controller, which serves as the CPU's
coherent domain interface. M2IOSF negotiates the transaction with CHAs, which also contain slices of the CPU's LLC cache, During this
negotiation, in some scenarios, MZIOSF may request temporary speculative ownership of the cache line, holding on to it for the duration of
the transaction if possible. Maximum granularity of Intel® DDIO transactions is one cache line (64 bytes), but data sizes smaller than 64B
are allowed and are known as partial transactions, M2IOSF is tasked with breaking up larger transactions into cache line granularity,

Inbound 1/0 memory read and write transactions are coherent and the coherence is handled by the CHAS. The CHAs are responsible for
looking up the data in the LLC or other system caches, accessing system memory, issuing snoops to other caching agents, and otherwise
maintaining data coherence. Each CHA contains a slice of the LLC and a queue called "Table Of Requests” (TOR). All data and control
messages in the mesh pass through the TOR in the CHA; the destination CHA for any memory transaction is determined by the hash of the
memory address of that transaction. The TOR in each CHA unit is an ideal observation point for monitoring data movement in the mesh
with hardware PMON counters.

Inbound I/O transactions with Intel® DDIO enabled behave similarly to cache transactions initiated by CPU cores. An I/O transaction results
in a cache hit when the target address is found in one or more of the system's caches; otherwise, a cache miss is observed.

A high-level inbound 1/0 transaction flow can be described as follows:
1, An I/O device initiates the inbound read request or inbound write transaction.
2. M2IOSF divides the transaction into 64B chunks, if necessary, and forwards the transaction to the CHAS.
3, The CHAs check for cache hit or miss and perform the necessary coherence operations such as snoops, In the data read case, the CHA
is also responsible for fetching the data from its current location, such as a caching agent, another socket, or memory.
4. In the data read case, the CHA sends data back to the Integrated 1/0 controller.

https:/Awww.intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/articles/technical/ddio-analysis-performance-monitoring.html 422
