
1 Introduction

Intel® Data Direct I/O Technology (Intel® DDIO) is available in current Intel® Xeon® processors. It enables 1/O devices such as network
interface controllers (NICs), disk controllers, and other peripherals to access the CPU's last-level cache (LLC). Direct access to LLC can
drastically increase performance due to lower latencies, CPU utilization, and higher bandwidth.

The Intel® DDIO feature is transparent to software, meaning that software does not need to be modified to utilize it. Since the software is
unaware of Intel® DDIO, how can one determine if and how effectively it is being used, and how can it be optimized to improve 1/0
performance?

This paper details how to use the available set of Intel Performance Monitoring (PerfMon) events and metrics to determine if and how
effectively Intel® DDIO technology is being used. It will cover suggestions on how to improve the utilization of Intel® DDIO.

This paper's content is specific to 4th Generation Intel® Xeon® Scalable Processors (formerly known as Sapphire Rapids) and Sth
Generation Intel® Xeon® Scalable Processors (formerly known as Emerald Rapids); however, many of the concepts apply to previous
Intel® Xeon@ class processor generations.

This paper does not cover the details of how to program uncore PerfMon events; please see the 4"" Gen Intel® Xeon® Scalable Processor
XCC Uncore Perf Guide [1] for this programming information. This paper does not cover cross-socket 1/O
flows; all flows discussed illustrate local traffic on one socket.

     

The PerfMon events referenced in this paper can be found in JSON format at the Intel® performance monitoring GitHub [2] in the SPR
directory. ~ ~

2 Architecture Background

2.1 4" Generation Intel® Xeon® Scalable Processors Platform Overview

While other documents provide a platform and architecture overview with a similar picture, to establish common ground, we will start with a
high-level overview of the 4th Generation Intel® Xeon® Scalable Processors in the figure below, 4th Generation Intel® Xeon® Scalable
Processors, like previous Intel® Xeon® Scalable Servers, implements a tile layout where various blocks are grouped onto tiles and placed in
Grid vertices. These grid vertices connect to a mesh interconnect, allowing blocks to be interconnected through a common mesh fabric. The
tile layout is SKU-specific; the figure below represents one possible layout or SKU,

https:/Awww.intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/articles/technical/ddio-analysis-performance-monitoring.html 122
